AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT OF 1990
Public Law 101-336
104 Stat. 327

TITLE I - EMPLOYMENT

SEC. 101. DEFINITIONS
As used in this title:

(1) COMMISSION - The term "Commission" means the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission established by section 705 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.

(2) COVERED ENTITY - The term "covered entity" means an employer, employment agency, labor organization, or joint labor-management committee.

(3) DIRECT THREAT - The term "direct threat" means a significant risk to the health or safety of others that cannot be eliminated by reasonable accommodation.

(4) EMPLOYEE - The term "employee" means an individual employed by an employer.

(5) EMPLOYER - The term "employer" means a person engaged in an industry affecting commerce who has 15 or more employees for each working day in each of 20 or more calendar weeks in the current or preceding calendar year.

(6) ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS - The term "essential functions" means the fundamental job duties of the employment position the individual with a disability holds or desires.

(7) STATE - The term "State" means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.

SEC. 102. DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES
(a) GENERAL RULE - No covered entity shall discriminate against a qualified individual on the basis of disability in regard to job application procedures, the hiring, advancement, or discharge of employees, employee compensation, job training, and other terms, conditions, and privileges of employment.

(b) CONSTRUCTION - As used in subsection (a), the term "discriminate against a qualified individual on the basis of disability" includes:

(1) limiting, segregating, or classifying a job applicant or employee in a way that adversely affects the opportunities or status of such applicant or employee because of the disability of such applicant or employee;

(2) participating in a contractual or other arrangement or relationship that has the effect of subjecting a covered entity's qualified applicant or employee with a disability to the discrimination prohibited by this title;

(3) utilizing standards, criteria, or methods of administration that have the effect of discrimination on the basis of disability or that perpetuate the discrimination of others who are subject to common administrative control;

(4) excluding or otherwise denying equal jobs or benefits to a qualified individual because of the known disability of an individual with whom the qualified individual is known to have a relationship or association;

(5) not making reasonable accommodations to the known physical or mental limitations of an otherwise qualified individual with a disability who is an applicant or employee, unless such covered entity can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the business of such covered entity;

(6) denying employment opportunities to a job applicant or employee who is an otherwise qualified individual with a disability, if such denial is based on the need of such covered entity to make reasonable accommodation to the physical or mental impairments of the employee or applicant;

(7) using qualification standards, employment tests or other selection criteria that screen out or tend to screen out an individual with a disability or a class of individuals with disabilities unless the standard, test or other selection criteria, as used by the covered entity, is shown to be job-related for the position in question and is consistent with business necessity.

SEC. 103. DEFENSES
(a) IN GENERAL - It may be a defense to a charge of discrimination under this Act that an alleged application of qualification standards, tests, or selection criteria that screen out or tend to screen out or otherwise deny a job or benefit to an individual with a disability has been shown to be job-related and consistent with business necessity, and such performance cannot be accomplished by reasonable accommodation.

PURPOSE:
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) was enacted to provide a clear and comprehensive national mandate for the elimination of discrimination against individuals with disabilities. The ADA prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in employment, state and local government, public accommodations, commercial facilities, transportation, and telecommunications.

SIGNIFICANCE:
The ADA was landmark civil rights legislation that extended protections to millions of Americans with disabilities. It requires employers to provide reasonable accommodations to qualified individuals with disabilities and prohibits discrimination in all aspects of employment.
