TERMS OF SERVICE

Last Updated: January 1, 2024

1. ACCEPTANCE OF TERMS
By accessing or using our services, you agree to be bound by these Terms of Service and all applicable laws and regulations.

2. DESCRIPTION OF SERVICE
We provide a platform that connects users with various services and resources. Our service includes but is not limited to:
- User account management
- Content delivery and streaming
- Communication tools
- Payment processing

3. USER ACCOUNTS
You are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of your account credentials and for all activities that occur under your account.

4. ACCEPTABLE USE
You agree not to use our services for any unlawful purpose or in any way that could damage, disable, or impair our services. Prohibited activities include:
- Violating any applicable laws or regulations
- Infringing on intellectual property rights
- Transmitting harmful or malicious code
- Attempting to gain unauthorized access to our systems

5. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
All content, features, and functionality of our services are owned by us and are protected by copyright, trademark, and other intellectual property laws.

6. PAYMENT TERMS
If you purchase a subscription or other paid services, you agree to pay all applicable fees and taxes. All fees are non-refundable unless otherwise specified.

7. TERMINATION
We may terminate or suspend your account at any time for violation of these terms or for any other reason at our sole discretion.

8. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTIES
Our services are provided "as is" without warranty of any kind. We disclaim all warranties, express or implied, including but not limited to warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
In no event shall we be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, consequential, or punitive damages arising out of or relating to your use of our services.

10. GOVERNING LAW
These terms shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to conflict of law principles.

11. MODIFICATIONS
We reserve the right to modify these terms at any time. We will notify users of material changes by posting the updated terms on our website.

12. CONTACT INFORMATION
If you have questions about these terms, please contact us at legal@company.com.
